I was a leader in a far-right organization
that actively supported apartheid
in the 1980’s.
We were on holiday at the sea,
and there were only black lifeguards.
I said to my friends with me that,
“I would rather drown
before I would allow a black man
to rescue me in the sea.”
The second day we were there,
the current pulled me out to sea,
and the harder I tried to come out,
the deeper the sea pulled me in.
The next moment
I see this black man coming toward me,
and I grab him around the neck,
and I almost wanted to kiss him.
That is how glad I was to see him
—because I was drowning!
I was totally exhausted.
I could not go on.
Even though a black man saved my life,
it did not change my attitude toward them.
Times started to change in the late eighties,
when they started to dismantle apartheid.
But we aggressively tried
to stop this from happening.
We even drove an armored vehicle,
smashing through the doors,
into the parliament buildings.
We were trying to see
if we could resist these changes
with apartheid,
but this did not change things.
Even though I belonged to a church,
I still drank heavily
and had extramarital affairs.
This led to me and my wife getting divorced.
It was an empty life.
I was never really happy.
A friend of mine
introduced me to the Witnesses.
One of the brothers I met asked me,
“If I prove from the Bible
that something you believe is incorrect,
what will you do?”
I said, “Then I will become a Witness.”
He went on to show me in the Bible
how the Bethlehem star
was actually from the Devil
to lead the wise men to kill Jesus.
This changed my whole life.
I said, “Now I can become a Witness.”
Being in the Kingdom Hall,
I noticed that there were many black people.
This was strange for me.
But the more I attended,
the more I began to learn that with Jehovah
there is no partiality.
All people are equal.
We began to accept
that this is the way it should be.
Johny and I were brought together
even though we were
from completely different political parties.
Before,
we would have wanted to kill each other,
but now we have love for one another.
We have forgiven one another.
Jehovah’s organization
changes a person completely.
If I think back to the kind of person I was,
and what I am now,
I never want to be what I was then.
Never!
It is such a privilege to be a Witness.
People call me a softy, but I do not mind.
I have become a softy, but for Jehovah.